Chapter 2: Malawi

Malawi’s national dish is Nsima. Nsima is very similar to the dish we had last week in Ghana (fufu) so we decided to look for something a bit different. There were a few recipes that consisted of sprinkling peanut flour on boiled vegetables, but that didn’t sound too tasty, so we skipped that too. In the end we went with the fish curry with plantains recipe. In Malawi, Chambo, a tilapia endemic to Lake Malawi, is commonly used for this recipe. The dish turned out really good, a bit boney but that was because I insisted that we cook the fish whole, head and all, rather than fillet it. And the evening was filled with the sounds of Lucius Banda singing his heart away while David regaled me with his tales from this far far away land of Malawi. Zikomo Malawi!

“If you’re in for adventure, and you don’t care about your plans, should you have any, to go completely out the window, then give Malawi a try. Even better, go there during the rainy season. It is the place for you. You might wind up in Nkhata Bay, where you wanted to go diving, but the pouring rain makes the water too muddy to see anything in the water. It takes days to get together a group of tourists to organize a trip to Nyika. When you finally go, you arrive on the camping ground late in the cold evening. Because on the way there, you got blocked by a huge truck, loaded with bags of fertilizer that got stuck in the mud. The only road to the park is that narrow muddy road, and you have to help to get that truck out of the way before you can move on. The red earth on your skin make you look like Rockman, but in spite of that sandy feeling in your cold sleeping bag, you sleep like a baby. And the next day you wake up in a foggy, but very quiet and beautiful park. After a few weeks you have had your share of flat tires, and bruises from being transported in overcrowded trucks over wobbly roads, but you remember that afternoon playing bao in that little village where you were invited to drink coffee, you remember the drinking evenings with the boss of the guesthouse, the terrifying beauty of a thunderstorm over Lake Malawi during the night, the faded glory of friendly Cape Maclear and the amazing dark clouds above the big lake, that are actually swarms of flies. Not a virtual adventure, but David’s memories of his trip to Malawi twelve years before corona.”

